## CE 492 Final Project Selection 
1. Dataset description:

The dataset used in this project is a CSV file about the air quality in northern Taiwan collected in 2015 (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/nelsonchu/air-quality-in-northern-taiwan), which include air quality data and meteorological monitoring data for research and analysis, originally from Environmental Protection Administration, Executive Yuan, R.O.C. (Taiwan). There are 25 observation stations in total. Columns in this CSV file are the following.

1. Time - The first column is the observation time of 2015

2. Station - The second column is the station name, there are 25 observation stations [Banqiao, Cailiao, Datong, Dayuan, Guanyin, Guting, Keelung, Linkou, Longtan, Pingzhen, Sanchong, Shilin, Songshan, Tamsui, Taoyuan, Tucheng, Wanhua, Wanli, Xindian, Xinzhuang, Xizhi, Yangming, Yonghe, Zhongli, Zhongshan].

3. Items - From the third column to the last one

4. item - unit - description
- SO2 - ppb - Sulfur dioxide
- CO - ppm - Carbon monoxide
- O3 - ppb - ozone
- PM10 - μg/m3 - Particulate matter
- PM2.5 - μg/m3 - Particulate matter
- NOx - ppb - Nitrogen oxides
- NO - ppb - Nitric oxide
- NO2 - ppb - Nitrogen dioxide
- THC - ppm - Total Hydrocarbons
- NMHC - ppm - Non-Methane Hydrocarbon
- CH4 - ppm - Methane
- UVB - UVI - Ultraviolet index
- AMB_TEMP - Celsius - Ambient air temperature
- RAINFALL - mm
- RH - % - Relative humidity
- WIND_SPEED - m/sec - The average of the last ten minutes per hour
- WIND_DIREC - degrees - The average of the last ten minutes per hour
- WS_HR - m/sec - The average of an hour
- WD_HR - degrees - The average of an hour
- PH_RAIN - PH - Acid rain
- RAIN_COND - μS/cm - Conductivity of acid rain

## Proposal:
The purpose of this project is to predict O3 concentrations using measurements of concentration of other pollutants and available meteorological measurements.  Ozone might be formed when heat and sunlight cause chemical reactions between oxides of nitrogen (NOx) and Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC), which are also known as Hydrocarbons. Therefore it could be hypothesized that using measurements of NOx as an independent variable a model could be developed to predict O3 concentrations. Additionally, meteorological variables such as air temperature, relative humidity(RH) and ultraviolet index (UVB - UVI) could be included as independent variables to assess their influence on temporal variability of ozone. As an additional step wind-related variables such as mean wind velocity and direction will be included to study their effect on temporal variability of ozone.

After the air quality data has been processed the strongest O3 predictors will be determined using PCA. PCA could be used to identify the main axes of variance within the dataset and explore underlying correlations that exist in a set of variables. Variables that are highly correlated cluster together. Using PCA 2D figures per each pair of variables are not needed, instead all the variables could be visualized simultaneously. Differences on PC1 are more important than differences on PC2. After plotting PCA plots, a heatmap could also be plotted to check the results. As additional criteria to identify the strongest predictors a LSTM network (long short-term memory network) can be used since the data used is time dependent. The network should contain several LSTM layers and fully-connected layers. The output should contain the pollution concentration and will point out the weights assigned to each correlated criterion, the values of such weights should also indicate what the strongest predictors are. Once the strongest predictors have been identified, genetic programming will be used to develop the models to predict O3 concentrations. 

Dataset description:
The dataset used in this project is a CSV file about the air quality in Northern Taiwan collected in 2015 (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/nelsonchu/air-quality-in-northern-taiwan), which includes air quality data and meteorological monitoring data for research and analysis, the originator is  Environmental Protection Administration, Executive Yuan, R.O.C. (Taiwan). There are 25 observation stations in total. Columns in this CSV file are:

Proposal:
The dataset used in this project is a CSV file about the air quality in Northern Taiwan collected in 2015 (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/nelsonchu/air-quality-in-northern-taiwan), which includes air quality data and meteorological monitoring data for research and analysis, the originator is  Environmental Protection Administration, Executive Yuan, R.O.C. (Taiwan). There are 25 observation stations in total. Columns in this CSV file are the following.
Time - The first column is the observation time of 2015
Station - The second column is the station name, there are 25 observation stations: [Banqiao, Cailiao, Datong, Dayuan, Guanyin, Guting, Keelung, Linkou, Longtan, Pingzhen, Sanchong, Shilin, Songshan, Tamsui, Taoyuan, Tucheng, Wanhua, Wanli, Xindian, Xinzhuang, Xizhi, Yangming, Yonghe, Zhongli, Zhongshan].
Items - From the third column to the last one
item - unit - description
SO2 - ppb - Sulfur dioxide
CO - ppm - Carbon monoxide
O3 - ppb - ozone
PM10 - μg/m3 - Particulate matter
PM2.5 - μg/m3 - Particulate matter
NOx - ppb - Nitrogen oxides
NO - ppb - Nitric oxide
NO2 - ppb - Nitrogen dioxide
THC - ppm - Total Hydrocarbons
NMHC - ppm - Non-Methane Hydrocarbon
CH4 - ppm - Methane
UVB - UVI - Ultraviolet index
AMB_TEMP - Celsius - Ambient air temperature
RAINFALL - mm
RH - % - Relative humidity
WIND_SPEED - m/sec - The average of the last ten minutes per hour
WIND_DIREC - degrees - The average of the last ten minutes per hour
WS_HR - m/sec - The average of an hour
WD_HR - degrees - The average of an hour
PH_RAIN - PH - Acid rain
RAIN_COND - μS/cm - Conductivity of acid rain

Proposal:

The purpose of this project is to predict O3 concentrations using measurements of concentration of other pollutants and available meteorological measurements.  Ozone might be formed when heat and sunlight cause chemical reactions between oxides of nitrogen (NOx) and Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC), which are also known as Hydrocarbons. Therefore it could be hypothesized that using measurements of NOx as an independent variable a model could be developed to predict O3 concentrations. Additionally, meteorological variables such as air temperature, relative humidity(RH) and ultraviolet index (UVB - UVI) could be included as independent variables to assess their influence on temporal variability of ozone. As an additional step wind-related variables such as mean wind velocity and direction will be included to study their effect on temporal variability of ozone.

After the air quality data has been processed the strongest O3 predictors will be determined using PCA. PCA could be used to identify the main axes of variance within the dataset and explore underlying correlations that exist in a set of variables. Variables that are highly correlated cluster together. Using PCA 2D figures per each pair of variables are not needed, instead all the variables could be visualized simultaneously. Differences on PC1 are more important than differences on PC2. After plotting PCA plots, a heatmap could also be plotted to check the results. As additional criteria to identify the strongest predictors a LSTM network (long short-term memory network) can be used since the data used is time dependent. The network should contain several LSTM layers and fully-connected layers. The output should contain the pollution concentration and will point out the weights assigned to each correlated criterion, the values of such weights should also indicate what the strongest predictors are. Once the strongest predictors have been identified, genetic programming will be used to develop the models to predict O3 concentrations. 

